You can’t do any of this in a vacuum.
Read through that list again. To do any of that without “getting lucky,” you need to socialize.
You have to meet people and build relationships.
If you’re like me, that’s not something you’re naturally gifted at. You might have a lot of anxiety around meeting new people.
In fact, before the age of 20, I didn’t know what the hell I was doing. I struggled to make friends and actively avoided social gatherings.
Fast-forward to age 30, I’m no James Bond but I’ve figured enough of this “social” stuff out to get results.

## How “social science” gives you an unfair advantage in your career

What most people won’t tell you is making new friends as an adult requires a non-superficial understanding of human psychology and social dynamics.
It’s not “common sense”, especially if you’re trying to make friends you think are “above you” or “out of your league” (they’re not).
I had to study social psychology on my own, because I had terrible role models growing up and had tons of social anxiety as a result.
But it turned out to be the greatest investment I ever made.

I had no idea applying social psychology teachings to my life would be a multiplier for everything else I did.
Looking back, the theory didn’t matter nearly as much as the practice.
That’s why I’m not filling this course with social psychology theory. I’m filling it with opportunities for you to expose yourself to the world with the support of a coach and learning community behind you.
Because I didn’t start feeling like a “Social QA” until I started going out into the world with the goal of helping people in the QA community.
That “customer service” mindset applied to the QA community is what gave me the confidence and audacity to fully invest in content and mentoring.

But you can’t just start writing about whatever you want. Nobody’s going to trust you on Day 1 to solve problems for them.
They need to know that you’re the real deal:
- Transparency – who are you, where did you come from, and where are you going?
- Proof of Work – showcase projects using skills they want to have
- Social Proof – gather testimonials, even if it’s from friends, family, and colleagues at first

So that means you need to have technical competence and social competence:

Social without technical → Con artist
Technical without social → Zero leverage
Social + Technical → Unstoppable

You’re here because you have basic technical skills at a minimum and you’re not sure how to approach the social side.
And you want someone to hold you accountable for actually putting yourself out there and meeting people who can change your career for the better.
Forget “not getting laid off” or “getting your first job”. You want more than that. You want to be an unstoppable force of nature who can decimate any QA career goal in your path.
You want to be a “Social QA” capable of leaving a legacy:
- Not just make friends, but attract the friends you want
- Clearly communicate your ideas to your team, your boss, and the world
- Elevate those around you by sharing your technical knowledge and social network
You’re in the right place.
